=head1 C Programming Tricks

=head2 Man pages

They should always be your primary source of information, not Stackoverflow.

C<man 2 <function>> : low-level, OS-specific functions

C<man 3 <function>> : high-level, usually standard functions

C<apropos <topic>> : look for all manpages on the given topic

=head2 Data Types

Stop using C<long int> or C<long long int>. This is not portable. For example,
Windows use 32 bits for C<long int> whereas the rest of the world uses 64 bits.
Include C<<stdint.h>> in all your programs and use C<int64_t> or C<uint64_t>.

The C<stdbool.h> header, part of the C99 standard, provides the C<bool> type
and the values C<true> and C<false>.

When specifying the length of a buffer or an array, avoid using C<int>. There
is a type dedicated for this usage: C<size_t>. You can print a C<size_t>
variable with C<printf> using the specifier C<%zu>. The specifier for
C<ssize_t> (signed) would be C<%zd>.

=head2 Compilers

L<GCC|https://gcc.gnu.org/> - It just works

L<LLVM|http://clang.llvm.org/> - Fancy features

L<TCC|http://repo.or.cz/w/tinycc.git> - #!/usr/bin/tcc -run

L<PCC|http://pcc.ludd.ltu.se/> - We are still waiting for it

L<8cc|https://github.com/rui314/8cc/> - Useless but small and clean code

L<cparser/libfirm|https://github.com/MatzeB/cparser> - Big potential

=head2 GCC Options

To show the list of GCC's builtin definitions you can use:

  echo | gcc -E -dM -

By default, newer versions of GCC read your source files as UTF-8. You can
enforce this behaviour with the options C<-finput-charset=UTF-8> and
C<-fexec-charset=UTF-8>.

Most of the options below also work with C<clang>.

The recommended optimization level of GCC is C<-O2>. You can try using C<-O3>
if your program is complex and does a lot of math. But be careful! There are
cases where -O3 programs end up being slower than with -O2. You have to test
before choosing one or the other. Besides, -O3 increases the chances of GCC
making optimization mistakes which can make your program produce invalid
results.

When compiling with -O2 or above, you might want to add
C<-fno-strict-aliasing> behind, unless you are sure your pointers will always
point to the same type as the one they (the pointers) were defined with.

  #include <stdio.h>

  int main(void) {
    int i = 8;
    float f = (float *)&i;

    printf("i=%i\n", i);

    *f = 0.;
    printf("i=%i\n", i);

    return 0;
  }

In this (stupid) example, you would expect the first printf to show i=8 and
the second one i=0. Let's see:

  gcc test.c && ./a.out
  i=8
  i=0

  gcc -O2 test.c && ./a.out
  i=8
  i=8    # wtf?

  # We must disable the strict aliasing optimization
  gcc -O2 -fno-strict-aliasing test.c && ./a.out
  i=8
  i=0

To force GCC to show all warnings: C<-Wall -Wextra -pedantic>. To treat
warnings as error: C<-Werror> and to stop the compilation after the first
error: C<-Wfatal-errors>.

To optimize for the host architecture: C<-march=native -mtune=native>. To be
more generic, you could limit yourself to C<-msse2> or C<-msse4.2>.
By the way, you can see what optimizations activated for a given
architecture with:

  gcc -march=native -Q --help=target

L<Liste of GCC X86 sub-arch|https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/x86-Options.html#x86-Options>

Since GCC 4.8, a new optimization level is available: C<-Og>. This produces
binaries optimized for debugging, but still more performant than C<-O0>. It
also compiles very fast. Note that you still need to add C<-g> for the
debugging symbols.

To speedup compilation, the C<-pipe> will prevent GCC from creating temporary
files, but will consume more memory instead.

L<LTO optimization for GCC|https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gccint/LTO-Overview.html>

=head2 Useful macros

  #define ASSIGN_BY_REF(_p,_value) \
    do { if (_p) *_p = _value; } while (0)

=head2 Links

L<Be careful with realloc|https://github.com/Tarsnap/libcperciva/commit/cabe5fca76f6c38f872ea4a5967458e6f3bfe054>

L<Some good data structures|https://github.com/Tarsnap/libcperciva/tree/master/datastruct>

