=head1 Firefox Tips

=head2 Privacy

Mozilla is not a non-profit organization anymore. The good old days are over.

=head3 Google Safe Browsing

Malware detection is useless on Linux anyway.

  browser.safebrowsing.enabled
  browser.safebrowsing.downloads.enabled
  browser.safebrowsing.malware.enabled

=head3 Statistics and health reports

Collected by Mozilla. Like if bug reports were not enough.

  datareporting.healthreport.service.enabled
  datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled
  toolkit.telemetry.enabled

=head3 WebRTC

Leaks your private IP (L<source|https://github.com/diafygi/webrtc-ips>).

  media.peerconnection.enabled

=head3 DRM

Firefox uses a binary blob to play medias encrypted with DRM.

  media.eme.enabled
  media.gmp-eme-adobe.enabled

=head3 Hello

Connects to Telefonica.

  loop.enabled

=head3 Pocket

We have bookmarks for that.

  browser.pocket.enabled

=head3 Geolocation

Your IP is enough.

  geo.enabled

=head3 B<Tracking Protection>

This will block sites which are known to track users. As a side effect, it
makes pages load faster!

  privacy.trackingprotection.enabled

=head3 1024-bit Diffie-Hellman

Research suggests that the NSA has developed the capability to decrypt
a large number of HTTPS, SSH, and VPN connections using an attack on
common implementations of the Diffie-Hellman key exchange algorithm
with 1024-bit primes.

The following options should be set to "false".

  security.ssl3.dhe_rsa_aes_128_sha
  security.ssl3.dhe_rsa_aes_256_sha

The EFF has set up a website to test your browser TLS configuration:
L<How's My SSL|https://www.howsmyssl.com>

=head2 Performance

=head3 Choppy scrolling

Enabling this option increases animation speed which reduces scrolling lags.

  layout.frame_rate.precise

Also, if your mouse scrolls too slowly, raise this option to a value like 40.

  mousewheel.min_line_scroll_amount

=head3 Session history

By default, each opened tab will keep its own history of the last B<50> visited
pages. This is too much. Set it to 10 or 15.

  browser.sessionhistory.max_entries

=head2 Extensions

My favorite ones:

=over 4

=item

uBlock Origin

=item

HTTPS-Everywhere

=item

FireGestures

=item

Live HTTP headers

=item

Remove Google Tracking

=item

Youtube Enhancer Plus

=item

JSONView

=back
